---
title: Gesmew 1.0.0
section: version
---

# Summary

This is the official 1.0 Release of Gesmew. This is a **major** release
for Gesmew, and so backwards compatibility with extensions and
applications is not guaranteed. Please consult the [extension
registry](http://gesmewcommerce.com/extensions) to see which extensions
are compatiable with this release. If your extension is not yet
compatible you should check back periodically since the community will
be upgrading various extensions over time.

!!!
If you are upgrading from older versions of Gesmew you should
perform a complete backup of your database before attempting. It is also
recommended that you perform a test upgrade on a local development or
staging server before attempting in your production environment.
!!!

# Namespacing

A difficulty in previous versions of Gesmew was using it with existing
applications, as there may have been conflicting class names between the
Gesmew engines and the host application. For example, if the host
application had a *Establishment* class, then this would cause Gesmew's
*Establishment* class to not load and issues would be encountered.

A major change within the 1.0 Release is the namespacing of all classes
within Gesmew. This change remedies the above problem in the cleanest
fashion possible.

Classes such as *Establishment*, *Variant* and *ProductsController* are now
*Gesmew::Establishment*, *Gesmew::Variant* and *Gesmew::ProductsController*.
Other classes, such as *RedirectLegacyProductUrl*, have undergone one
more level of namespacing to more clearly represent what areas of Gesmew
they are from. This class is now called
*Gesmew::Core::RedirectLegacyProductUrl*.

Constants such as *GesmewCore* and *GesmewAuth* are now *Gesmew::Core* and
*Gesmew::Auth* respectively.

## Referencing Gesmew routes

In previous versions of Gesmew, due to the lack of namespacing, it was
possible to reference routing helpers such as *product_url* as-is in
the controllers and views of your application and send them to the
*ProductsController* for Gesmew.

Due to the namespacing changes, these references must now be called on
the *gesmew* routing proxy, so that Rails will route to Gesmew's
*product_url*, rather than a *potential* *product_url* within an
application. Routing helpers referencing Gesmew parts must now be written
like this:

```ruby
gesmew.product_url
```

Conversely, to reference routes from the main application within a
controller, view or template from Gesmew, you must use the *main_app*
routing proxy like this:

```ruby
main_app.root_url
```

If you encounter errors where routing methods you think should be there
are not available, ensure that you aren't trying to call a Gesmew route
from the main application within the proxy prefix, or a main application
route from Gesmew without the proxy as well.

## Mounting the Gesmew engine

When *rails g gesmew:install* is run inside an application, it will
install Gesmew, mounting the *Gesmew::Core::Engine* component by inserting
this line automatically into *config/routes.rb*:

```ruby
mount Gesmew::Core::Engine, :at => "/"
```

By default, all Gesmew routes will be available at the root of your
domain. For example, if your domain is http://shop.com, Gesmew's
/establishments URL will be available at http://shop.com/establishments.

You can customize this simply by changing the *:at* specification in
*config/routes.rb* to be something else. For example, if your domain is
http://bobsite.com and you would like Gesmew to be mounted at /shop, you
can write this:

```ruby
mount Gesmew::Core::Engine, :at => "/shop"
```

The different parts of Gesmew (Auth, API, Dash & Promo) all extend the
Core's routes, and so they will be mounted as well if they are available
as gems.

# Gesmew Analytics

The admin dashboard has been replaced with Gesmew Analytics. This new
service will provide deep insight\
into your store's ecommerce performance and sales conversion funnel.

You will have to [register your
store](http://gesmewcommerce.com/stores/new) with Gesmew Commerce. Then
configure the Analytics Add On to generate your token. The token should
be entered on the Admin Overview page.

The original dashboard has been extracted into the [gesmew_dash
gem](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew_simple_dash) .

# Command line tool

We have moved the 'gesmew' command line tool to its own gem. This is the
new recommended way for adding Gesmew to an existing Rails application.
The tool will add the Gesmew gem, copy migrations, initializers and
generate sample data.

To add Gesmew to a Rails application you do the following:

```bash
$ gem install gesmew
$ rails new my_store
$ cd my_store
$ gesmew install```


The extension generator has also been moved to this new tool.

```bash
$ gem install gesmew
$ gesmew extension my_ext```

# Default Payment Gateways

The new Gesmew Command Line Tool prompts you to install the default
gateways. This adds the
[gesmew\skrill](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew_skrill) and
[gesmew_usa_epay](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew_usa_epay) gems. These
are the Gesmew Commerce supported gateways for stores in the United
States (USA ePay) and Internationally (Skrill formally Moneybookers).

```bash
 $ rails new my_store
 $ gesmew install my_store
 Would you like to install the default gateways? (yes/no) [yes]```

We have moved all the gateways out of core (except bogus) to the [Gesmew
Gateway Gem](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew_gateway). You can add this
gem to your Gemfile if you need one of those gateways.

```ruby
gem 'gesmew'

#  add to your Gemfile after the Gesmew gem
gem 'gesmew_gateway'
```

The gateways available in the [Gesmew Gateway
Gem](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew_gateway) are community supported.
These include Authorize.net, Stripe and Braintree and many other
contributed gateways.

# Preferences

We have refactored Gesmew Preferences to improve performance and
simplify code for applications and extensions. The previous interfaces have been\
maintained so no code changes should be required. The underlying
classes have been completely rewritten.

Please see the [Gesmew
blog](http://gesmewcommerce.com/blog/2011/12/08/gesmew-preferences-refactored)
for notes on this release.

# Deprecated functions

## Middleware

The lines for middleware in *config/application.rb* within a host
application are now deprecated. When upgrading to Gesmew 1.0 you must
remove these two lines from *config/application.rb*:

```ruby
config.middleware.use "SeoAssist"
config.middleware.use "RedirectLegacyProductUrl"
```

These two pieces of middleware are now automatically included by the
`Gesmew::Core::Engine`.

## Establishment

*master_price*, *master_price=*, *variants?*, *variant* are now
officially retired. Please use *Gesmew::Establishment#price*,
*Gesmew::Establishment#price=*, *Gesmew::Establishment#has_variants?* and
*Gesmew::Establishment#master* respectively instead.

## Gesmew::Config[:stylesheets]

`Gesmew::Config` and `stylesheet_tags` are removed in favor for the Rails
3.1 Asset Pipeline. See the [Asset
Customization](http://guides.gesmewcommerce.com/legacy/1-0-x/asset_customization.html) for more information.

Extensions looking to add stylesheets to the application should do so
through the Asset Pipeline by making the extension an engine.

## General deprecations

-   *Gateway.current* is now deprecated. Use
    *inspection.payment_method.gateway* now.
    [#747](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/pull/747)

# Calculator

## Calculator::PriceBucket is now renamed to Calculator::PriceSack

The *PriceBucket* contains Bucket keyword that conflicts with *AWS::S3*
library which has caused few issues with Heroku deployment. If you used
this calculator in your application, then you will need to rename it to
*PriceSack*.

# Taxation

There have been several major changes to how Gesmew handles tax
calculations. If you are migrating from an older version of Gesmew your
previous tax configurations will not function properly and will need to
be reconfigured before you can resume processing inspections.

!!!
Be sure to backup your database before migrating. Your tax
configuration will likely break after upgrading. You have been warned.
!!!

## Zone#match now only returns the best possible match.

Previously the method would return an array of zones as long as the zone
included the address. Now only the narrowest match is returned.

## New `Inspection#tax_zone` method

Will return the zone to be used for computing tax on the inspection. Returns
the best possible zone match given the inspection address. In the absence of
an inspection address it will return the default tax zone (if one is
specified.)

## Adjustments are now polymorphic

Previously the `Adjustment` class belonged to just `Inspection`. Now the
`LineItem` class can have adjustments as well. This allows Gesmew to
store the amount of tax included in the price when prices include tax
(such as VAT case.)

## New `Inspection#price_adjustments` method

Convenience method for listing all of the price adjustments in the
inspection. Price adjustments are tax calculations equivalent to the amount
of tax included in a price. These adjustments are not counted against
the inspection total but are sometimes useful for reporting purposes.

***
You don't need to worry about price adjustments unless your prices
include tax (such as the case with Value Added Tax.)
***

## New `Inspection#price_adjustment_totals` method

Convenient method for show the price adjustment totals grouped by
similar tax categories and rates.

## Removed helpers and javascript related to VAT

Prior to this version of Gesmew there were several helpers designed to
show prices including tax before Gesmew was changed so that prices were
expected to already include tax (when applicable.) We've removed a lot
of stuff related to the old (more complicated) way of doing things.

!!!
One unfortunate byproduct of prices now including tax is that
you will need to change the prices on your establishments if you are in a
region that requires prices to include tax and you were not already
including the tax in your prices.
!!!

## Removed sales tax and VAT calculators

Both of these calculators have been replaced by the single calculator
`Calculator::DefaultTax`.

## Tax rates can now be included in a establishment price

There is now a boolean checkbox for indiciating if a tax rate is
included in the establishment price. The tax rate will only be considered as
part of the establishment price if the establishment has a matching tax category.
You can also have multiple tax rates with this designation.

## New `TaxRate#adjust` method

This method is responsible for calculating the price. This is basically
an internal change but some developers may be interested to know this.

***
Marking a tax rate as including price is the new way to handle
Value Added Tax (VAT) and other similar tax schemes.
***

# Zones

There is one major change related to zones in this release. Zones can no
longer have zone members that are themselves a zone. All zone members
must now be a either a country or state.

# Testing

## The demise of Cucumber testing

Cucumber is a great testing tool however it doesn't bring more values
for testing but overhead. It is decided to opt for a light-weight
practice of RSpec + Capybara.

# Upgrading

This section aims to walk you through upgrading to the newest version of
Gesmew.

***
This steps in this guide were written while upgrading from 0.70.x
to 1.0.0. Upgrading older versions of Gesmew may require some additional
steps.
***

## Upgrading the Gesmew Gem

You will want to begin the update process by updating the Gesmew gem in
your Gemfile to reference version 1.0.0.

```ruby
gem 'gesmew', '1.0.0'
```

Next, you will need to update this gem using this command:

```bash
$ bundle update gesmew```

***
If you run `bundle update` instead of `bundle update gesmew`,
you run the risk of having all your application dependencies updated to
their latest version. It is recommended to only update gesmew during the
upgrade process.
***

## Extensions

Any Gesmew extensions being used will also need to be updated to a 1.0.0
compatible version. If there is not a 1.0.0 compatible extensions
release yet, you will need to disable that extension in inspection to
continue the upgrade process.

## Routes

You will need to update your routes file in inspection for Gesmew's routes to
be correctly loaded. You will need to add `mount Gesmew::Core::Engine,
:at => '/'` as shown below.

```ruby
#config/routes.rb
YourStore::Application.routes.draw do
  mount Gesmew::Core::Engine, :at => '/'
  
  # your application's custom routes
  …
end
```

If you're mounting Gesmew at the default root path, it is recommended to
place your application's custom routes beneath Gesmew's mounted routes as
shown in the above example. This will ensure you don't override any of
Gesmew's defined routes.

You may choose to mount Gesmew at a custom location by changing the *:at*
option to something different, such as *:at => '/shop'*.

## Update config/application.rb

Remove the following two lines from **config/application.rb** in your
application:

```ruby
config.middleware.use "SeoAssist"
config.middleware.use "RedirectLegacyProductUrl"
```

These two pieces of middleware are now automatically included by Gesmew.
If you have no desire to use these pieces of middleware, you can now
remove them by placing these two lines into your
**config/application.rb**:

```ruby
config.middleware.delete "Gesmew::Core::Middleware::SeoAssist"
config.middleware.delete
"Gesmew::Core::Middleware::RedirectLegacyProductUrl"
```

## Migrations

```bash
$ bundle exec rake railties:install:migrations```

Run the above command to copy over all the migrations from all the
engines included in your application. This may also include any
migrations from extensions or other engines.

Then it is time to run any new migrations copied to your application.

```bash
$ bundle exec rake db:migrate
```

## Asset Manifest Files

Remove the line requiring gesmew_dash from
**app/assets/stylesheets/store/all.css**,
**app/assets/stylesheets/admin/all.css**,
**app/assets/javascripts/store/all.js**, and
**app/assets/javascripts/store/all.js**

## Other Tips for Upgrading

-   If your application defines any class decorators, you will need to
    update these files to decorate Gesmew's new namespace classes. This
    means *Establishment* becomes *Gesmew::Establishment*, *Country* becomes
    *Gesmew::Country*, and so on.
-   Correct the paths to any templates you are overriding to include the
    Gesmew namespace. Things such as **app/views/establishments/show.html.erb**
    have now become **app/views/gesmew/establishments/show.html.erb**.

# Bug fixes

-   Fixed issue caused by using *&:upcase* syntax inside the *tab*
    helper provided by *Admin::NavigationHelper*.
    [#693](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/pull/693) and
    [#704](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/pull/704).
-   Fixed issue where non-ASCII characters were not being correctly
    titleized in the *tab* helper provided by *Admin::NavigationHelper*.
    [#722](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/pull/722)
-   When Thinking Sphinx was being used, a conflict would occur with its
    *Scopes* module and the one inside Gesmew.
    [#740](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/pull/740)
-   Added *script/rails* to core to allow things such as *rails
    generate* and *rails console* to be used. [commit
    b0903ea](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/commit/b0903ea477b63bd36c9940b5e0386e29e55f6189)
-   Performance improvements for the *best_selling_variants* and
    *top_grossing_variants* methods in *Admin::OverviewController*.
    [#718](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/pull/718)
-   If an admin user already exists, *rake db:admin:create* will now ask
    if you want to override.
    [#752](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/pull/752)
-   Making a request to a URL such as
    */admin/establishments/non-existant/edit* no longer shows a status 500
    page. [#538](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/538)
-   *rails g gesmew:install* output is now not so excessive. [commit
    ca4db30](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/commit/ca4db301e773da4ebc9d2a13e24c5d0e86dd0108)
-   The *Gesmew::Core::Engine* is automatically mounted inside your
    application when you run *rails g gesmew:install*. [commit
    ba67b51](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/commit/ba67b514af41918bf892323c9fd685689c74667a)
-   Establishment *on_hand* now takes all variants into account.
    [#772](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/772)
-   The translation for "Listing Products" in admin/establishments now is more
    easily translatable into different languages. [commit
    c0d5cb5](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/commit/c0d5cb5316715ec8aa886fab5bc0820be616d302)
-   Removed POSIX-only system calls, replaced with Ruby calls instead to
    enable Windows compatibility.
    [#711](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/711) and [commit
    ce00172](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/commit/ce001721a32dd84523d9504feec074db72ef3efb)
-   Improved *bundle exec rake test_app* performance. [commit
    6a2d367](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/commit/ce001721a32dd84523d9504feec074db72ef3efb)
-   Improved permalink code, removed reliance on the
    *rd-find_by_param* gem.
    [#444](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/444) and
    [#847](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/847)
-   Master variant is now deleted when a establishment is deleted. Performance
    with this action has also been improved.
    [#801](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/801)
-   An invalid coupon code on the payment screen will now show an error.
    [#717](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/717)
-   Products are now restocked when an inspection is canceled, and unstocked
    when the inspection is resumed.
    [#729](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/729)
-   The *ffaker* gem is now used in favor of the *faker* gem.
    [#826](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/826)
-   *Gesmew::Config.set* should no longer be used, please use
    *Gesmew.config* with a block: [commit
    5590fb3](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/commit/5590fb3)
    [#801](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/801)
-   Fix calculator dropdown bug for creating a shipping method in the
    admin interface. [#825](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/825)
-   Fix escaping of *order_subtotal* in view.
    [#852](https://github.com/gesmew/gesmew/issues/852)

